# Loss-Analysis-of-a-Bicycle-company-using-SQL
Adventure Works is a bicycle and bicycle related product manufacturing company. It produces lots of products and the products can be mainly categorised into four categories which are Bikes, Components, Accessories and Clothing. These four categories can be further Sub Categorised into 37 which can be further divided as 128 Product Models and in total there are 504 products and out of 504 only 295 products will fall into the above categorisations. There are 209 products that does not belong to any Category, Sub Category or Product Model. And all these 209 products are unfinished goods and the other 295 products are finished goods. Adventure Works also have different areas like Production, Sales, Procurement, Person etc. The production area deals with products, workorder, inventory, categories etc while the procurement area deals with purchases, vendors etc. The person area deals with the customers and there are three variants of customers they are Individuals, Stores and Store with contact. The sales area deals with the sale of finished good product to the Retail and the Wholesale customers. Adventure Works has a key problem on how to increase the profitability.
In order to look into this problem, we have to look into more detail on sales. The profits, loss made in terms of products, product models, sub categories, categories, customers, the profit and loss made in certain years, quarters, months and sale territories and the profit and loss due to the discounts offered. We can also look which type of customers are making more profit and less loss. And which customers are making more sales. So, in order to address this issue, we can look at our data in different ways and find out the cause of this issue. And when I analysed the sales data considering all the above-mentioned factors, I can see that the Retail customers are making more profit and not causing any loss. On the contrary, the wholesale customers are making more loss than the profit. However, 80% of sales is made to the wholesale customers who are only 6.75% of overall customers. And only 20% of sales is done by the 93.25% of retail customers. Hence this can’t be the solution. Then if I look into the data in terms of category and sub category, I can identify that only certain sub categories are accounting for more loss. If that loss can be mitigated, profitability can be increased a lot. And those sub categories are “Mountain Bikes”, “Road Bikes”, “Touring Bikes”.
Firstly, if I look at the “Mountain Bikes” most losses are due to the “Clearance Sale” which means they are producing more Mountain Bikes than they are selling which causes them to clear the stocks and go for clearance sale. They should reduce the production of Mountain Bikes considering the sales of it. Even though overall it is making profit, if the losses are mitigated the overall profit can be increased. Secondly, if we look at the “Touring Bikes” losses are due to the Promotion sale and its losses considerable amount of money because of this promotion and it hasn’t produced much profit in the sales. Henceforth, the promotion sales are not effective considering the cost involved and Adventure works should find an alternative mode of promotion. Finally, on detailed analysis of the “Road Bikes” which caused the most loss than any other Sub Category. We can clearly see that Loss occurs in the “No Discount”. If there is occurrence of loss even if there is “No Discount” we can clearly understand the Markup percentage are less in fact, when we look at the data those values are negative. Clearly the Markup percentage of Road Bikes needs to reconsidered. Above three are my recommendation for Adventure Works.
